writing/alcohol-drugs.md, before:

# Balancing Alcohol, Drugs and Fun

There's no way around it, alcohol and drugs are super fun 🥳. Anything that can help you relax, have fun or open your mind sounds great to me. I've developed some of my best (and often unusual 🤪) ideas when slightly drunk or high. And the impact of those ideas lasts way past the effects of the substance.

I see little difference between these kind of substances and gaming, bad foods, exercise, sex or anything else you do for pleasure. They can all give your great experiences, but can all come with downsides and have addictive tendencies. They just all have a different balance of reward, cost (short and long term) and level of addiction.

Becoming addicted to anything is bad 👎. And the rode to becoming an addict can be a slippery one, so you want to stay way clear from the turning point.

But as long as you do stay clear and are very aware of the short and long term negative effects of any substance you take, keep experimenting 👨‍🔬.

For me, I've been very aware of the quantity of alcohol I drink. And take lots of measures to ensure I don't fall into addictive tendencies and am not dependant on alcohol:

- Tracking daily alcohol intake and viewing trends to check I'm in control
- Social pressure, by sharing my drinking process and goals with people who can hold me accountable
- Pre committing to not drinking on certain days/events
- Getting an online coach to help double check that my drinking habits don't lead to dependency

So as long as I'm on the right side of addiction, I'd no longer stop drinking or taking drugs as I would stop exercising, gaming or having weird monkey style sex.

---

## Notes incase I revisit this article

- I'm trying to help people discover the point through the post rather than directly telling them, but am I being too vague that the point doesn't even come across? - Point being "as long as you stay a way from addiction, are very aware of it and any other short/long term costs, there's nothing wrong with alcohol and drugs"
- Give examples of the rewards, costs and level of addiction of some of the things I'm comparing to drink and drugs. It's not immediately obvious that you can compare these things, as drink and drugs are directly chemically addictive, where some of the others are addictive by the joy they bring you.
- Should I talk more about the benefits of substances that temporarily effect your mental state?

Commit message:

docs(alcohol-drugs): 📝 do some minor edits before publishing
branch selfish

writing/alcohol-drugs.md, after:

# Balancing Alcohol, Drugs and Fun

There's no way around it, alcohol and drugs are super fun 🥳. Anything that can help you relax, have fun or open your mind sounds great to me. I've developed some of my best (and often unusual 🤪) ideas when slightly drunk or high. And the impact of those ideas lasts way past the effects of the substance.

I see little difference between these kind of substances and gaming, bad foods, exercise, sex or anything else you do for pleasure. They can all give you great experiences, but can come with downsides and addictive tendencies as well. Each just has have a different balance of rewards, costs (short and long term) and levels of addiction.

Becoming addicted to anything is bad 👎 (except for an addiction to antique globe collecting 🌍). And the rode to becoming an addict can be a slippery one, so you want to stay way clear from the turning point.

But as long as you do stay clear and are very aware of the short and long term negative effects of any substance you take, keep experimenting 👨‍🔬.

For me, I've been very aware of the quantity of alcohol I drink 🍻. And take lots of measures to ensure I don't fall into addictive tendencies and am not dependant on alcohol:

- Tracking daily alcohol intake and viewing trends to check I'm in control
- Social pressure, by sharing my drinking process and goals with people who can hold me accountable
- Pre committing to not drinking on certain days/events
- Getting an online coach to help double check that my drinking habits don't lead to dependency

So as long as I'm on the right side of addiction, I'd no longer stop drinking or taking drugs as I would stop exercising, gaming or having weird monkey style sex 😉🐒.
