writing/no-voting.md, before:

# Why I Don't Vote

If you are reading this, this piece is currently in a very loose draft state. And is mainly me trying to organise my own thinking and ideas and figure out if my ideas are justified or whether I've been horribly ignorant. With that in mind, please withhold judgement until it's finished.

---

A few years ago, deep into my London hipster vibe, I was reading a lot about self development and happiness 😀. I spent most of my time around East London, running a tech startup and going to the quirky bars where you sit on crates and barrels (to be fair I still do a lot of this now, it's fun but now I do improvised comedy as well 🎭).

During this time I started an experiment. I stopped reading the news. I'd read about how the news doubles done on negativity to help sell, and that small doses of consistent negativity each day can have a dramatic long term effect on your happiness 😢. So time to find out if this was true... It was... I have never gone back to reading the news.

Turns out that I got all the information I needed to function in society just by the conversations I had with friends and family (NOTE: positive feedback loops). Unless you work in an industry where you need to know exactly what's going on in the world, I can't see a compelling reason to go back (NOTE: Brainstorm more reasons to check this). Reading the news just made me slightly sadder and pessimistic on a daily basis, often in such subtle ways that I never realised until I cut it out for a few months.

(NOTE: Could bring up social media at some point in this post, but I don't have super strong feelings about it in regards to this, I don't use it because I don't gain from it, not sure it makes me sadder. Also this post is about voting)

Up until this point (I was around 23 at the time), I hadn't voted yet. It was never something that really came up in my life or I thought about until around then (oh how ignorance is bliss). But as I was living in London and getting older, I would hear more about politics, elections and all that crap 💩. Turns out conversations do get more serious as you get older.

I started thinking about it more, discussing this mad world of politics and voting with friends and family. To me it seemed ridiculous that people could vote without knowing a reasonable amount about all parties. Why don't we have and exam you need to pass in order to vote? I would think. I certainly didn't feel qualified enough to vote on who should run the country. I have since realised that democracy isn't about the electing the best people, but about keeping those in charge scared of the general public so they don't get all "dictatory". Democracy seems to be the best of a bunch of non ideal options.

I still hold the belief that my vote would be useless or counter productive if I didn't know an even amount about each reasonably sized party. Which ties us back into reading the news. This was something I did not want to do, and had shown makes me happier when I don't. So now the question was:

> Is it worth reading the news and staying up to date, which decreases my daily happiness, so that I feel informed enough to vote?

NOTE: What other alternatives are there to keep up to date, without reading negative news

There's got to be a pretty good reason to vote to suffer those consequences. This led me to look at the problem in the following way:

- What is the problem that my vote will help to solve?
- How big of a problem is it?
- Will my vote help to solve that problem?
- Overall is the benefit gained worth the consequences?

So let's look at these points in more detail.

## What is the problem that my vote will help to solve?

Errr...making a better world...duh! 

Voting is about choosing who you think would make you (depending how selfless you are 😇), your country (and by extension the world 🌍) better off compared to the other candidates. This could mean who will do less harm, as well as who will do most good. Either way the goal is the same, try and make yourself (again depending on 😇) and as many people as happy as possible.

It's always possible to improve the world. There's no cap on how awesome we can be, unless maybe we find a way to keep every living thing in a constant state of eternal happiness, even past the heat death of the universe.

##How big of a problem is it?

- Could look at Maslow hierarchy and simplify into (physiological, safety and happiness (the rest))
  - Show poverty, average age for physiological getting better
  - Wars, crime and people dying from them for safety
  - Not sure what to do for happiness (but too fuzzy to tell)
- Things are pretty damn good so the problem isn't particularly large (NOTE: This becomes useful for the overall benefit part)
- World seems to be getting better without my input, why would I think that process needs changing
- Is it selfish for me to think that the problem isn't big enough?
  - Even if the difference feels small to me, it doesn't for other people
    - Problem is you don't know exactly what impact will come from the party you vote for. More effective ways of helping people, than the time/sadness needed to keep up with the news (talked about in next section)

## Will my vote help to solve that problem?

- Probably not
  - Politicians don't do everything they say
  - All the big parties are so similar, the future looks pretty near the same (biggest point)
  - Any of the options are good
  - Add in the metaphor about choosing between your favourite meals

NOTE: Caveat, if the world starts properly going to shit, or the difference between the big parties become huge

## Overall, is the benefit gained worth the consequences?

Nope

- The problem isn't that large, as the worlds great
- Voting won't solve the problem because you can't be sure the changes you want will happen, and they're all so similar anyway
- The downsides are huge
- I can be more useful in society as a happy, productive member, than a sad sack complaining about the world

## Final thoughts

NOTE: I do not want people to follow my reasoning, otherwise the whole system doesn't work

NOTE: Did vote in Brexit, but that's all

(NOTE: Reword this with points from above? Or just remove and say above) So, how fucked is the world. And is it fucked enough to warrant the daily dose of sadness to vote. Answer: The world is awesome and keeps getting better. Why the hell would I vote. It's like choosing between your 2 favourite meals. (NOTE: It's not the parties that are the meals, just the state of the world after the parties have done their thing.) I don't particular mind which one I have, they're both great. So why agonise over the choice (NOTE: This metaphor is probably one of the best ways to convey my general thoughts about the issue. Great either way, so no point in voting until one of the options is not great.)

(NOTE: Research common reasons to vote and answer through this? Or add my response as a bonus section at end)

Commit message:

docs(no-voting): 📝 start writing about Maslow
branch voting

writing/no-voting.md, after:

# Why I Don't Vote

If you are reading this, this piece is currently in a very loose draft state. And is mainly me trying to organise my own thinking and ideas and figure out if my ideas are justified or whether I've been horribly ignorant. With that in mind, please withhold judgement until it's finished.

---

A few years ago, deep into my London hipster vibe, I was reading a lot about self development and happiness 😀. I spent most of my time around East London, running a tech startup and going to the quirky bars where you sit on crates and barrels (to be fair I still do a lot of this now, it's fun but now I do improvised comedy as well 🎭).

During this time I started an experiment. I stopped reading the news. I'd read about how the news doubles done on negativity to help sell, and that small doses of consistent negativity each day can have a dramatic long term effect on your happiness 😢. So time to find out if this was true... It was... I have never gone back to reading the news.

Turns out that I got all the information I needed to function in society just by the conversations I had with friends and family (NOTE: positive feedback loops). Unless you work in an industry where you need to know exactly what's going on in the world, I can't see a compelling reason to go back (NOTE: Brainstorm more reasons to check this). Reading the news just made me slightly sadder and pessimistic on a daily basis, often in such subtle ways that I never realised until I cut it out for a few months.

(NOTE: Could bring up social media at some point in this post, but I don't have super strong feelings about it in regards to this, I don't use it because I don't gain from it, not sure it makes me sadder. Also this post is about voting)

Up until this point (I was around 23 at the time), I hadn't voted yet. It was never something that really came up in my life or I thought about until around then (oh how ignorance is bliss). But as I was living in London and getting older, I would hear more about politics, elections and all that crap 💩. Turns out conversations do get more serious as you get older.

I started thinking about it more, discussing this mad world of politics and voting with friends and family. To me it seemed ridiculous that people could vote without knowing a reasonable amount about all parties. Why don't we have and exam you need to pass in order to vote? I would think. I certainly didn't feel qualified enough to vote on who should run the country. I have since realised that democracy isn't about the electing the best people, but about keeping those in charge scared of the general public so they don't get all "dictatory". Democracy seems to be the best of a bunch of non ideal options.

I still hold the belief that my vote would be useless or counter productive if I didn't know an even amount about each reasonably sized party. Which ties us back into reading the news. This was something I did not want to do, and had shown makes me happier when I don't. So now the question was:

> Is it worth reading the news and staying up to date, which decreases my daily happiness, so that I feel informed enough to vote?

NOTE: What other alternatives are there to keep up to date, without reading negative news

There's got to be a pretty good reason to vote to suffer those consequences. This led me to look at the problem in the following way:

- What is the problem that my vote will help to solve?
- How big of a problem is it?
- Will my vote help to solve that problem?
- Overall is the benefit gained worth the consequences?

So let's look at these points in more detail.

## What is the problem that my vote will help to solve?

Errr...making a better world...duh! 

Voting is about choosing who you think would make you (depending how selfless you are 😇) and your country (and by extension the world 🌍) better off compared to the other candidates. This could mean who will do less harm, as well as who will do most good. Either way the goal is the same, try and make yourself (again depending on 😇) and as many people as happy as possible.

It's always possible to improve the world. There's no cap on how awesome we can be, unless maybe we find a way to keep every living thing in a constant state of eternal happiness, even past the heat death of the universe.

##How big of a problem is it?

When making the world a better place we can look at Maslow's Hierarchy of Needs to figure out what problems to be solving and how important those problems are. For a full breakdown of Maslow's Hierarchy of Needs go here, otherwise I'll assume you're somewhat familiar.

![Maslow](../assets/maslows-hierarchy-of-needs.svg)

For this article I want to simplify this further into 3 parts:

- Physiological - Same as above
- Safety - Same as above
- Happiness - A combination of the top 3 layers of the pyramid (Love/belonging, esteem and self-actualisation)

If happiness is the goal, you'll need to sort out the physiological and safety needs first. It's hard to be happy and content when you're starving, in a permanent state of fear or dead. Therefore the most important problems to solve start at the bottom of the pyramid and get smaller as you work your way up. It's still important to keep working upwards, but it's not as urgent anymore. So let's focus on surviving and staying healthy before tackling relationships and confidence.

NOTE: Could show the inverse exponential diagram, with self-actualisation at the top, and as you go up the pyramid it takes more energy for less and less increase in happiness. Could have another diagram showing cost against benefit and the point where they meet is when you decide to stop voting.

When it comes to the political landscape I find myself in (the UK), We've pretty much nailed the Physiological and Safety parts of the pyramid. And the differences between the major parties aren't going to impact those levels particularly. This dramatically reduces how important our problem (trying to make the world a better place) is.

- Could look at Maslow hierarchy and simplify into (physiological, safety and happiness (the rest))
  - Show poverty, average age for physiological getting better
  - Wars, crime and people dying from them for safety
  - Not sure what to do for happiness (but too fuzzy to tell)
- Things are pretty damn good so the problem isn't particularly large (NOTE: This becomes useful for the overall benefit part)
- World seems to be getting better without my input, why would I think that process needs changing
- Is it selfish for me to think that the problem isn't big enough?
  - Even if the difference feels small to me, it doesn't for other people
    - Problem is you don't know exactly what impact will come from the party you vote for. More effective ways of helping people, than the time/sadness needed to keep up with the news (talked about in next section)

## Will my vote help to solve that problem?

- Probably not
  - Politicians don't do everything they say
  - All the big parties are so similar, the future looks pretty near the same (biggest point)
  - Any of the options are good
  - Add in the metaphor about choosing between your favourite meals

NOTE: Caveat, if the world starts properly going to shit, or the difference between the big parties become huge

## Overall, is the benefit gained worth the consequences?

Nope

- The problem isn't that large, as the worlds great
- Voting won't solve the problem because you can't be sure the changes you want will happen, and they're all so similar anyway
- The downsides are huge
- I can be more useful in society as a happy, productive member, than a sad sack complaining about the world

## Final thoughts

NOTE: I do not want people to follow my reasoning, otherwise the whole system doesn't work

NOTE: Did vote in Brexit, but that's all

(NOTE: Reword this with points from above? Or just remove and say above) So, how fucked is the world. And is it fucked enough to warrant the daily dose of sadness to vote. Answer: The world is awesome and keeps getting better. Why the hell would I vote. It's like choosing between your 2 favourite meals. (NOTE: It's not the parties that are the meals, just the state of the world after the parties have done their thing.) I don't particular mind which one I have, they're both great. So why agonise over the choice (NOTE: This metaphor is probably one of the best ways to convey my general thoughts about the issue. Great either way, so no point in voting until one of the options is not great.)

(NOTE: Research common reasons to vote and answer through this? Or add my response as a bonus section at end)
