writing/privacy.md, before:

# Give up all your data

Imagine a world where everything that was advertised to you was only something that you would buy. No more spam, or spending ages searching through the shit for the things you want or need. Sounds great!

And companies want this too. They waste so much money advertising to people who will never buy their products. They could save so much and spend more on making better products for you.

Now imagine that when the companies are designing these products, they knew exactly how to build the perfect product for you. They could see how you used previous products, competitors products and how to fit their new product into your life. Now you're happy that you have a better product, and they're happy you keep buying from them.

We can get there! But the companies need your data. Ideally all of it. They need to know that you don't like x so they don't have to waste money advertising it to you. They need to know how you have x habit, so they can build an y that does z.

At the moment many of us are overly paranoid when it comes to privacy and personal data. You know no person is looking at your  individual cloud data. It's only machines and algorithms going through it. Giving trend data to companies to help build better products for you, and let you know about things you want. Privacy is starting to sound pretty selfish.

I get that there are some cases where it's important for your security to keep your data private, (NOTE: about not sharing some stuff socially e.g. location data. This post is concerned with giving data to companies not social). And that people should be more aware of the dangers of positive feedback loops (which aren't entirely a bad thing, especially if you're aware of it).

So know what data needs to be private, but for the rest, give it freely. Help make the world a spam free place filled with products specifically designed for you. Otherwise you're just shooting yourself in the foot.

NOTE: This post is about giving data to companies, not sharing socially. Make that clear somewhere and tailor everything to this.

Commit message:

docs(privacy): 📝 write a near complete version
branch privacy

writing/privacy.md, after:

# Give up all your data

Imagine a world where everything that was advertised to you was only something that you would buy. No more spam, or spending ages searching through the shit for the things you want or need. Sounds great!

And companies want this too. They waste so much money advertising to people who will never buy their products. They could save so much and spend more on making better products for you.

Now imagine that when companies are designing these products, they know exactly how to build the perfect product for you. They could see how you used previous products, competitors products and how to fit their new product into your life (NOTE using the word products too much). Now you're happy that you have a better product, and they're happy you keep buying from them.

We can get there! But the companies need your data. Ideally all of it. They need to know that you don't like x so they don't waste money advertising it to you. They need to know that you do x, so they can build a y that does z.

At the moment many of us are overly paranoid when it comes to given our personal data to companies. You know no human is looking at your individual cloud data, right? (NOTE: And even if they were, why do you care?) It's only machines and algorithms going through it. Giving trend data to employees so they can help build better products for you, and let you know about things you want.

(NOTE: Next few paragraphs are a bit ranty and can be trimmed a lot)
Like many technologies and associated trends there's some things we should be clued up on to avoid being taken advantage of. The main thing here is positive feedback loops. Where you like a funny article about ducks, now you start seeing more articles about ducks, you like a few more, next thing you know your entire feed is just ducks and you've signed up for duck impersonation training.

Positive feedback loops aren't always a bad thing (can be great to find new music you like) but when mixed with things like fake news and political articles it can really shape the way people thing, sometimes in damaging ways.

But this is just like any other bias you might not be aware that you have. Knowing about fake news and being vigilante is just a part of the modern internet, just like how you should to be aware of credit fraud of confirmation bias. It's something for the law to help make safe, not something inherently bad about companies.

So make sure you're aware of positive feedback loops or any other bias' related to sharing your data, but don't let that stop you from helping companies make the world a better place. Share your data with companies, otherwise you're just shooting yourself in the foot.
