writing/shady-business.md, before:

# Shady Business

- Someone coming in for an interview at a "Shady Business"
- Prospective recruit is a fantastic spy, and explains all their amazing creds
- Turns out the business is literally shady, all the employees provide shade. 1 person works as a pot plant, another as a set of blinds, last person is the chair?
- Game of the scene is the employer revealing someone else in the room who is providing shade and the recruit gives a spy story that shows they're awesome, but not providing shade
- Link together the key skills listed on the job ad, with being physically shady

---

There was a knock on the thick oaken door, a confident and resounding rap tap tap.

The man behind the desk looks up, shuffles together the pieces of paper he was perusing and calls out "Please, do come in".

As the door glides open a young man in a fantastic black suite enters. His stare moves around the room, glancing upon the awkwardly shaped tall pot plant in the corner, taking in the individual sections of the large blinds across the window and finalises on the man at the desk. "Tarquin, Tarquin Hemsworth at your service" he says, holding out his perfectly manicured hand.

"Ah yes, the new potential recruit. How exciting! You may call me Hollingswood. Please, do sit." Hollingswood gestures to the plump rouge armchair on the other side of the desk. As Tarquin sits Hollingswood continues "I'm so glad you stumbled across our little advertisement. You have no idea how hard it is to recruit someone here at..." he pauses, gives a side long look and winks "...Shady Business Corp".

"Yes well, I came across your ad whilst infiltrating a gang of Neo Nazis in Papua New Guinea. Dressed as a Rocky from the Rocky Horror Picture Show I managed to procure their last Hitler DNA sample and speed away in my DB5. That's when I noticed your billboard along the the Okuk Highway. As I read that you were looking for a talented international spy, with key skills in espionage, physical combat and disguises, I thought to myself, Tarquin... Your next adventure awaits"

"Yes yes, very good, very impressive. Now I have to warn you that we do currently have three other interested applicants for the role here at... Shady Business Corp. Miranda here..." Hollingswood gestures towards the pot plant "...has been expertly providing shade as a Guatemalan Parlour Palm". A cheeky fern starts waving enthusiastically. "How would you say your skills help provide shade in a similar manner?"

"Oh!" NOTE: Straight man it

Commit message:

📝 docs(shady-business): Keep adding to the main content
- Original Branch: shady-business

writing/shady-business.md, after:

# Shady Business

- Someone coming in for an interview at a "Shady Business"
- Prospective recruit is a fantastic spy, and explains all their amazing creds
- Turns out the business is literally shady, all the employees provide shade. 1 person works as a pot plant, another as a set of blinds, last person is the chair?
- Game of the scene is the employer revealing someone else in the room who is providing shade and the recruit gives a spy story that shows they're awesome, but not providing shade
- Link together the key skills listed on the job ad, with being physically shady
- NOTE: Split the description of the objects that turn out to be people, into separate paragraphs and occasions of notice
- NOTE: Maybe each revealed "shader" is dismissed once revealed.

---

There was a knock on the thick oaken door, a confident and resounding rap tap tap.

The man behind the desk looks up, shuffles together the pieces of paper he was perusing and calls out "Please, do come in".

As the door glides open a young man in a fantastic black suite enters. His stare moves around the room, glancing upon the awkwardly shaped tall pot plant in the corner, taking in the individual sections of the large blinds across the window and finalises on the man at the desk. "Tarquin, Tarquin Hemsworth at your service" he says, holding out his perfectly manicured hand.

"Ah yes, the new potential recruit. How exciting! You may call me Hollingswood. Please, do sit." Hollingswood gestures to the plump rouge armchair on the other side of the desk. As Tarquin sits Hollingswood continues "I'm so glad you stumbled across our little advertisement. You have no idea how hard it is to recruit someone here at..." he pauses, gives a side long look and winks "...Shady Business Corp".

"Yes well, I came across your ad whilst infiltrating a gang of Neo Nazis in Papua New Guinea. Dressed as a Rocky from the Rocky Horror Picture Show I managed to procure their last Hitler DNA sample and speed away in my DB5. That's when I noticed your billboard along the the Okuk Highway. As I read that you were looking for a talented international spy, with key skills in espionage, physical combat and disguises, I thought to myself, Tarquin... Your next adventure awaits"

"Yes yes, very good, very impressive. Now I have to warn you that we do currently have three other interested applicants for the role here at... Shady Business Corp. Miranda here..." Hollingswood gestures towards the pot plant "...has been expertly providing shade as a Guatemalan Parlour Palm". A cheeky fern starts waving enthusiastically. "How would you say your skills help provide shade in a similar manner?"

"I...Errr..." Tarquin gains composure over himself, staring again at the pot plant which has now ceased it's energetic waving. "Well I... Err... Have found that in my illusive career dabbling on both sides of the law, when avoiding the gaze of certain individuals, who have less than amicable plans for me, the shadows have often been my friends. And I..."

"Excellent! Getting to know your subject work in a friendly way. That's the kind of initiative we like to see at... Shady Business Corp. Darren for instance..." At this point the blinds covering the wide main window start rattling, and Tarquin could swear they somehow manage to salute. "Has shown great promise in variable shade length. Do you have any experience in altering your physique to allow more or less shade?"

"What... How?... I... Yes, yes of course. I err... have had much... physical training in various martial arts. Which has allowed me great control over every part of my physical and mental being. But I thought... Normally I would... use those talents to defeat mysterious international assassins of some kind, but..."

"Brilliant! A man in great shape and control could put any set of blinds to shame. Sorry Darren but you're out!" The set of blinds unmount itself from the window and walks off, grumbling about "pretty boys" and "no space for the likes of me".
