writing/under-the-bridge.md, before:

# Under The Bridge

The night was lit by the occasional surprise of lightning. As if the gods wanted you to start regaining some kind of night vision, before fucking you over with another burst of electric brightness. In the periodic darkness a figure (lets call him Clive) scurries over the cobblestones as the rain pit patters around him. The rush of water can be heard as Clive continues his scurrying along the elevated banks of the river pathway.

Another burst of light, and we see Clive pause. As he came upon the edge of a narrow, gloomy bridge. He looks this way and that, nervously shrugging off the build up of water on the tall collars of his leather jacket. As the light fades, he ducks down the stone stairs leading to the space underneath the bridge.

Imagine someone who has only ever heard tell of how to approach a secret meeting, but never realised that doing so would look incredibly suspicious, that is our Clive.

Underneath the bridge, there is a small walkway that widens out into a concrete platform raised just above the water line. The water appears to be frantically grabbing at the platform, the small waves making it seem as if hands are grasping out trying to pull you in. If there was a demon controlling the waters of hell, he would have been proud at the way this river was acting.

Clive shuffles his feet along the platform, knocking empty beer cans, cigarette butts and needles into the river as he goes. The graffiti on the underside wall of the bridge seems to mock him as he passes. A neon steam punk goblin with the speech bubble "Life is ~~shit~~ ~~sex~~ ~~drugs~~ big floppy dildos". A hastily sprayed purple cloud raining large golden coins onto the peasants below, killing them as it lands. A giant baby in a dirty nappy with a head made of hundreds of politicians. Isn't street art wonderful.

In front of Clive, on the platform stands a mysterious figure. Wearing a long dark trench coat that reaches just above the floor and a black leather cowboy hat that keeps their eyes in shadows. The figure is smoking a fat cigar, chewing it slowly in the corner of their mouth. The occasional gleam of light from each toke, briefly highlights the stubble on their square jawed chin. Their back is turned slightly from Clive, as the figure looks out across the water.

Clive shuffles closer and gives a nervous clearing of the throat, the hesitancy in the sound makes you feel like a doctor is cupping his balls and asking him to cough.

The figure turns around abruptly, clearly surprised the cigar falls out of his mouth and into the rushing water below.

A squeaky and breaking voice shrills "Cor blimey, you didn't 'alf give me a freight. Have you seen
how dramatic it is out 'ere. You nearly made me shit my pants." The figure turns to face Clive.
During this movement his hat dislodges slightly, tilting at an angle it gives the figure the
appliance of a bemused ....

Commit message:

📝 docs(under-the-bridge): Add the first interaction with the dealer
- Original Branch: feature/under-the-bridge

writing/under-the-bridge.md, after:

# Under The Bridge

The night was lit by the occasional surprise of lightning. As if the gods wanted you to start regaining some kind of night vision, before fucking you over with another burst of electric brightness. In the periodic darkness a figure (lets call him Clive) scurries over the cobblestones as the rain pit patters around him. The rush of water can be heard as Clive continues his scurrying along the elevated banks of the river pathway.

Another burst of light, and we see Clive pause. As he came upon the edge of a narrow, gloomy bridge. He looks this way and that, nervously shrugging off the build up of water on the tall collars of his leather jacket. As the light fades, he ducks down the stone stairs leading to the space underneath the bridge.

Imagine someone who has only ever heard tell of how to approach a secret meeting, but never realised that doing so would look incredibly suspicious, that is our Clive.

Underneath the bridge, there is a small walkway that widens out into a concrete platform raised just above the water line. The water appears to be frantically grabbing at the platform, the small waves making it seem as if hands are grasping out trying to pull you in. If there was a demon controlling the waters of hell, he would have been proud at the way this river was acting.

Clive shuffles his feet along the platform, knocking empty beer cans, cigarette butts and needles into the river as he goes. The graffiti on the underside wall of the bridge seems to mock him as he passes. A neon steam punk goblin with the speech bubble "Life is ~~shit~~ ~~sex~~ ~~drugs~~ big floppy dildos". A hastily sprayed purple cloud raining large golden coins onto the peasants below, killing them as it lands. A giant baby in a dirty nappy with a head made of hundreds of politicians. Isn't street art wonderful.

In front of Clive, on the platform stands a mysterious figure. Wearing a long dark trench coat that reaches just above the floor and a black leather Fedora that keeps their eyes in shadows. The figure is smoking a fat cigar, chewing it slowly in the corner of their mouth. The occasional gleam of light from each toke, briefly highlights the stubble on their square jawed chin. Their back is turned slightly from Clive, as the figure looks out across the water.

Clive shuffles closer and gives a nervous clearing of the throat, the hesitancy in the sound makes you feel like a doctor is cupping his testicles and asking him to cough.

The figure turns around abruptly, clearly surprised the cigar falls out of his mouth and into the rushing water below.

A squeaky and breaking voice shrills "Cor blimey, you didn't 'alf give me a freight. Have you seen how dramatic it is out 'ere. You nearly made me shit my pants." The figure turns to face Clive. During this movement his Fedora dislodges slightly, tilting at an angle it gives the figure the appliance of a bemused puffin (If you can picture that).

"Err, I've come.... I've come to, erm, purchase..." Clive feedble stammers.

"Oh, a customer. All is forgiven, what's your fancy. I 'ave it all." The figure opens up their trechcoat and a dazzling gleam glistens from within, as hundreds of tiny pockets are revealed. Each one containing as many forks as it is humanly possible to stuff inside a trechcoat.

The pockets seem to cover every surface of clothing the figure is wearing, even going round the back of the coat and a few sneaky ones visible around the inside of the sleeves. The figures body and legs are likewise enveloped in home made pockets attached to their dark clothing.

"I've got your classic ceremonial birthing fork". They indicate a collection of fancy looking forks in a tight pocket on their chest.

"An on the go travel fork, your late night party prong, a carefully balanced carving classic, and don't forget..."

The figures looks around a gives a cheeky wink.

"A collection of hand tarnished, never been used, tremendoulsly tactile toasting forks. For the discerning gentleman, of course."

NOTE: "A bit spoonier" (spork). The dealer is disgusted.
