making-beliefs.md, before:

# How to make beliefs - When to believe what someone else believes

## How do you know that what you believe is true?

Have you followed all the scientific methods to test and confirm that gravity, the stars or evolution exist and are true. We form beliefs about how we think the world works all the time. We believe a certain political idea will work better for more people than another, or we believe that pursuing our current lifestyles and goals will make us happy.

Each belief we make is likely to be dependenant on many other things being true. If you believe the earth orbits the sun, you would also need to believe in current theories of gravity, believe that the earth is round and so on. But a single individual cannot go through all the proofs needed to ensure these beliefs and sub beliefs are actually true. It would take too long. So we have to believe some things that we are told. But how should we decide who to believe on what?

## I can see the evidence myself

When you learn about something new and you can see proof of its existence that is certainly a good first step. Someone tells you the world works like this because of x, and you can clearly see the result of x. However our world is a complex place, so many events can cause a certain result to be visible. (NOTE: Example) How can you be sure that the result you're seeing was caused exclusively by x, and isn't infact a by product of something else. Or that x slightly increases the chance of the result happening but isn't the main cause.

## What makes a good source of beliefs

### Their methods and results are replicable

When an individual or organisation publish a fact about the world that may inform your beliefs, one of the best ways to check it's validity is to see if other people have set out to collect similar data and found the same results. The scientific method is about producing a set of experimental steps that will always lead to the same data and conclusions. It's why the scientific community in general is one of the best places to find the most accurate facts and beliefs. As for an idea or belief to be accepted in the community it must have been verified by people other than the original expirementors.

### They set out to prove their ideas wrong

One of the best ways to filter a valid belief from the huge array of false ones, is to try and prove the idea wrong. Rather than trying to prove it right. As seen in the media it's not particularly hard to find data to fit your theory. (NOTE: Example) But that data may not be related to the theory. By setting out to prove the belief wrong you're discarding alternate explanations of your observations until you may be left with a single plausable belief.

### They show that they update their beliefs and agendas when their ideas are proved to be wrong

Humans can be stubborn creatures, unwilling to admit their wrong and change their beliefs. A great way to have more trust in a source is by seeing them adjust their beliefs according to the new information they encounter. It shows a willingness to embrace rationality and how the world actually is, rather than how they want it to be.

## Traps to avoid

## Bringing these ideas into your daily life

## More Info

---

## Notes

- We can't do the scientific proofs for everything we believe in life
  - Too much, everything that goes into understanding how and why the internet works would take too long
  - Example? Step through proofs for something a bit simplier
- We have to choose some sources we assign a high liklihood of being correct, without doing the experiments ourselves
- How to choose
  - When you can see the result of a belief and it matches up, that's evidence towards it being correct. Even without doing experiments to scientifically proove it's the correct cause. But not always
  - Vet the reliability and robustness of sources,
    - Do they admit when wrong
    - Do they provide proofs for a variety of different agendas (trying to ensure they're not politically or personally motivated)
- Pitfalls
  - Just choosing sources you want to believe

---

- Can't do the experiments to proove everything you need to rely on
- So need to figure out who to trust as likely being right (scientists, philosophers, entrepreneurs, friends, neighbours etc)
- Without choosing people who are biased or help reinforce politically or personal bias in our own beliefs
- Look at peoples methods and understand what is meant by scientific method and proof. If they follow these practices, publish the methods and other people replicate the results. Probability in belief increases
- We're not going to look up this for a lot of what we read, hear or think about. So then what?
  - Take a min to think, what do I know and how do I know it. If it's just from random conversation and the news, think in terms of probabilities how likely is it that those sources are accurate
- If you knew someone to be a perfect rationalist, as a rationalist yourself you would believe everything they said, without needing to check yourself. This is not the case, but the principle applies for assigning a probability to it. How rational do I think the people with these beliefs are?
- Lot's of people believing something can be a very weak proof, however the general public are not normally very good rationalists and very susceptable to the news and social media. Which is not a great space for rationality.
- Find groups which have a high level of rationality
- Other resources
  - Bias
  - Less wrong
  - HPMOR

---

- Problem/intro
  - Can't test all beliefs ourselves, must rely on others
- What makes a good source
  - Replicable results
  - Admit when wrong
  - No strong obvious agenda
  - Shows the outliers to the data
  - Trying to prove their own theory wrong
- Traps to avoid
  - Politically, personal bias - wanting to believ something
- Using this in daily life
  - Be more aware of sources
  - Think in probabilities, about how much you trust a source based on your current knowledge
  - Read more about bias
- Links

Commit message:

📝 docs(making-beliefs): Add applicable ideas
- Original Branch: feature/making-beliefs

making-beliefs.md, after:

# How to make beliefs - When to believe what someone else believes

## How do you know that what you believe is true?

Have you followed all the scientific methods to test and confirm that gravity, the stars or evolution exist and are true. We form beliefs about how we think the world works all the time. We believe a certain political idea will work better for more people than another, or we believe that pursuing our current lifestyles and goals will make us happy.

Each belief we make is likely to be dependenant on many other things being true. If you believe the earth orbits the sun, you would also need to believe in current theories of gravity, believe that the earth is round and so on. But a single individual cannot go through all the proofs needed to ensure these beliefs and sub beliefs are actually true. It would take too long. So we have to believe some things that we are told. But how should we decide who to believe on what?

## I can see the evidence myself

When you learn about something new and you can see proof of its existence that is certainly a good first step. Someone tells you the world works like this because of x, and you can clearly see the result of x. However our world is a complex place, so many events can cause a certain result to be visible. (NOTE: Example) How can you be sure that the result you're seeing was caused exclusively by x, and isn't infact a by product of something else. Or that x slightly increases the chance of the result happening but isn't the main cause.

## What makes a good source of beliefs

### Their methods and results are replicable

When an individual or organisation publish a fact about the world that may inform your beliefs, one of the best ways to check it's validity is to see if other people have set out to collect similar data and found the same results. The scientific method is about producing a set of experimental steps that will always lead to the same data and conclusions. It's why the scientific community in general is one of the best places to find the most accurate facts and beliefs. As for an idea or belief to be accepted in the community it must have been verified by people other than the original expirementors.

### They set out to prove their ideas wrong

One of the best ways to filter a valid belief from the huge array of false ones, is to try and prove the idea wrong. Rather than trying to prove it right. As seen in the media it's not particularly hard to find data to fit your theory. (NOTE: Example) But that data may not be related to the theory. By setting out to prove the belief wrong you're discarding alternate explanations of your observations until you may be left with a single plausable belief.

### They show that they update their beliefs and agendas when their ideas are proved to be wrong

Humans can be stubborn creatures, unwilling to admit their wrong and change their beliefs. A great way to have more trust in a source is by seeing them adjust their beliefs according to the new information they encounter. It shows a willingness to embrace rationality and how the world actually is, rather than how they want it to be.

## Traps to avoid (NOTE: Maybe remove this section)

- Choosing sources that confirm your belief rather than tryign to disprove
- Not botherling to look at alternate ideas and theories
- Using phrases like "Everyone does x" or "No one does y" - Bubble of information served by social media
-

## Bringing these ideas into your daily life

Doing your due diligence on every idea you come across is impratical. Just like doing the experimental proofs for everything you believe, you're not going to vet every single source for how well they exercise rationality and the scientific method. Instead I propose the following changes you can make:

### Read up on rationality

Learning more about rationality will help you to reason about beliefs and ideas in a more logical way. The ideas itteaches will stick in your subconcious and help you automatically as you hear about new ideas that make effect your beliefs. The blog LessWrong is a great place to start learning more about rationality concepts in a concise way. Also the fan fiction book Harry Potter and the Methods of Rationality, is very entertaining and has great concepts in it.

### Read about different bias

Reading a list and explanation of different bias is a quick task and can really change they way you accept new ideas. You'll recognise a lot of things that you already do without realising. This is a nice quick win, and for any bias you don't necessary agree or believe is true you can look up the experiments prooving it in more detail. I suggest you start with (NOTE: Link).

### If you're going to check an individual or organisation for their methods, start with ones you encounter a lot, or for beliefs that are high impact for you

### Practice assigning probabilities to beliefs and ideas

- Practice assigning a super rough probability of how accurate you think a belief is when you come across it. The practice of doing this will train you to subconciously weigh beliefs

## More Info

---

## Notes

- We can't do the scientific proofs for everything we believe in life
  - Too much, everything that goes into understanding how and why the internet works would take too long
  - Example? Step through proofs for something a bit simplier
- We have to choose some sources we assign a high liklihood of being correct, without doing the experiments ourselves
- How to choose
  - When you can see the result of a belief and it matches up, that's evidence towards it being correct. Even without doing experiments to scientifically proove it's the correct cause. But not always
  - Vet the reliability and robustness of sources,
    - Do they admit when wrong
    - Do they provide proofs for a variety of different agendas (trying to ensure they're not politically or personally motivated)
- Pitfalls
  - Just choosing sources you want to believe

---

- Can't do the experiments to proove everything you need to rely on
- So need to figure out who to trust as likely being right (scientists, philosophers, entrepreneurs, friends, neighbours etc)
- Without choosing people who are biased or help reinforce politically or personal bias in our own beliefs
- Look at peoples methods and understand what is meant by scientific method and proof. If they follow these practices, publish the methods and other people replicate the results. Probability in belief increases
- We're not going to look up this for a lot of what we read, hear or think about. So then what?
  - Take a min to think, what do I know and how do I know it. If it's just from random conversation and the news, think in terms of probabilities how likely is it that those sources are accurate
- If you knew someone to be a perfect rationalist, as a rationalist yourself you would believe everything they said, without needing to check yourself. This is not the case, but the principle applies for assigning a probability to it. How rational do I think the people with these beliefs are?
- Lot's of people believing something can be a very weak proof, however the general public are not normally very good rationalists and very susceptable to the news and social media. Which is not a great space for rationality.
- Find groups which have a high level of rationality
- Other resources
  - Bias
  - Less wrong
  - HPMOR

---

- Problem/intro
  - Can't test all beliefs ourselves, must rely on others
- What makes a good source
  - Replicable results
  - Admit when wrong
  - No strong obvious agenda
  - Shows the outliers to the data
  - Trying to prove their own theory wrong
- Traps to avoid
  - Politically, personal bias - wanting to believ something
- Using this in daily life
  - Be more aware of sources
  - Think in probabilities, about how much you trust a source based on your current knowledge
  - Read more about bias
- Links
