README.md, before:

# Writing

A collection of posts and writings by [Charlie Jackson](https://charliejackson.com). Basically my blog and random muslings 📖🙃

All my old stuff may still be around on [Medium](https://medium.com/@CharlieAJackson).

## Finished Pieces

- [Overcoming your primitive mind](./writing/primitive-mind.md) (February 2020)
- [How selfish should you be](./writing/selfish.md) (January 2020)
- [Don't take life too seriously](./writing/serious.md) (January 2020)
- [Give up all your data](./writing/privacy.md) (December 2019)
- [Killing the Dog](./writing/kill-the-dog.md) (November 2019)
- [Balancing Alcohol, Drugs and Fun](./writing/alcohol-drugs.md) (November 2019)
- [Stop Forgetting, Employ the Machines! 🤖](writing/forgetting.md) (November 2019)
- [Why I don't Vote](writing/no-voting.md) (October 2019)
- [Shady Business](writing/shady-business.md) (September 2019)
- [No-one is the Villain of Their Own Story](writing/no-villains.md) (August 2019)
- [Under the Bridge](writing/under-the-bridge.md) (August 2019)

## Unfinished

- [Religion is obviously false](./writing/religion.md) (December 2019)
- [How to Form Beliefs - When to Believe What Someone Else Believes](writing/forming-beliefs.md) (August 2019)
- [Poker](./writing/poker.md) (February 2020)

## In Progress

- [How to Enjoy Life](writing/enjoy-life.md)

Commit message:

docs(writing): 📝 add a bunch of older writings
branch master

README.md, after:

# Writing

A collection of posts and writings by [Charlie Jackson](https://charliejackson.com). Basically my blog and random muslings 📖🙃

## Finished Pieces

- [Overcoming your primitive mind](./writing/primitive-mind.md) (February 2020)
- [How selfish should you be](./writing/selfish.md) (January 2020)
- [Don't take life too seriously](./writing/serious.md) (January 2020)
- [Give up all your data](./writing/privacy.md) (December 2019)
- [Killing the Dog](./writing/kill-the-dog.md) (November 2019)
- [Balancing Alcohol, Drugs and Fun](./writing/alcohol-drugs.md) (November 2019)
- [Stop Forgetting, Employ the Machines! 🤖](writing/forgetting.md) (November 2019)
- [Why I don't Vote](writing/no-voting.md) (October 2019)
- [Shady Business](writing/shady-business.md) (September 2019)
- [No-one is the Villain of Their Own Story](writing/no-villains.md) (August 2019)
- [Under the Bridge](writing/under-the-bridge.md) (August 2019)
- [It's all your fault](https://medium.com/lessons-by-charlie-jackson/its-all-your-fault-8bf87a9138fa) (Nov 2018)
- [Listen - It’s Not About You](https://medium.com/lessons-by-charlie-jackson/listen-its-not-about-you-86c93f74df83) (Nov 2018)
- [How Thinking in Probabilities Helps You Make Better Decisions](https://medium.com/lessons-by-charlie-jackson/how-thinking-in-probabilities-helps-you-make-better-decisions-c82e09bd183a) (Nov 2018)
- [Improve your thinking by writing](https://medium.com/lessons-by-charlie-jackson/improve-your-thinking-by-writing-7c0e71c8dfe7) (Nov 2018)
- [Learn by Building — Motivated Programming](https://medium.com/lessons-by-charlie-jackson/learn-by-building-motivated-programming-378c1a635e7c) (Oct 2018)
- [Start small and do less — Forming habits for life](https://medium.com/lessons-by-charlie-jackson/start-small-and-do-less-forming-habits-for-life-679948eb08e7) (Oct 2018)
- [Calm yourself using lists, picking your battles and paying for simplicity](https://medium.com/lessons-by-charlie-jackson/calm-yourself-using-lists-picking-your-battles-and-paying-for-simplicity-36488e87a9ee) (Apr 2018)
- [Be curious, tell people what you want and 23 more lessons from this week](https://medium.com/lessons-by-charlie-jackson/be-curious-tell-people-what-you-want-and-23-more-lessons-from-this-week-cff6967706b7) (Mar 2018)
- [Plan fun shit, death to CMS and have a hangover work plan](https://medium.com/lessons-by-charlie-jackson/plan-fun-shit-death-to-cms-and-have-a-hangover-work-plan-c5f747650bf3) (Feb 2018)

## Unfinished

- [Religion is obviously false](./writing/religion.md) (December 2019)
- [How to Form Beliefs - When to Believe What Someone Else Believes](writing/forming-beliefs.md) (August 2019)
- [Poker](./writing/poker.md) (February 2020)

## In Progress

- [How to Enjoy Life](writing/enjoy-life.md)
